In the last module, you learned how to open
a call and run the basic fact find.
Now we're going a level deeper into
discovery.
So stick with me here because this is where
the real skill shows up.
Let me draw a clear line between qualification
and discovery because they are not the
same thing. Qualification is basically
asking, can we do business with this person?
Do they own the property?
Is it residential? Is it in our market?
Is there some reason they want to sell?
Those are the basics and you covered a lot
of that in the fact find.
Discovery is a completely different
question.
Discovery is asking, why should we do
business with this person right now?
What's really going on underneath the
surface?
What's the actual pain?
What happens if nothing changes in their
situation?
How urgent is this?
Qualification confirms the basics.
Discovery uncovers the real motivation.
Both matter, but discovery is where deals
are actually made.
You can qualify someone all day long, but if
you don't understand what's really driving
them, you're just collecting data.
So you've already established rapport, you've
asked the qualification questions, you've
confirmed the basics. Now you go deeper.
And the first place to go is the real
motivation.
Here's the thing about sellers.
Most of them won't tell you the real reason
they're selling on the first answer.
They just won't. They'll give you the
surface level version.
I just want to see what it's worth.
Or I'm thinking about downsizing.
That's the polished answer.
The real story is usually something messier
and more human than that.
Your job is to go underneath.
And the way you do it is by asking why in
different ways without sounding like a five
year old. You might say, you mentioned
you're thinking about selling.
What's driving that? Or how long has this
been on your mind?
Or what changed that made you start thinking
about it now?
Or what would it mean for you to have this
handled?
Each one of those follow up questions peels
back another layer.
Don't accept the first answer.
Keep digging, gently but persistently.
People want to tell you what's going on.
They just need to feel safe enough to do it.
The next area to explore is financial
burden.
And this is a big one.
Financial pressure is one of the strongest
motivators out there.
But people are often embarrassed about it.
So you have to create safety around the
topic.
You might ask something like, is the property
costing you anything to hold on to right
now? Like mortgage, taxes, insurance,
maintenance?
Or are there any payments you've fallen
behind on?
Or if you don't mind me asking, do you have
a rough idea of what's owed on the property?
If they reveal financial strain, if they're
behind on payments, if there are tax liens,
if there's a foreclosure looming?
That is critical information for the
acquisition team.
That changes the entire picture.
There's one more question.
And it's so important I want to call it out
on its own.
The what if question. What happens if you
don't sell?
What does that look like six months from
now?
This question forces them to confront the
consequences of doing nothing.
And their answer tells you everything you
need to know about urgency.
If they say something like, I just keep
renting it out.
No big deal. That's low motivation.
They're not in pain. But if they say, I'll
probably lose it to the bank.
Or I honestly can't keep dealing with this
anymore.
That's high motivation.
That's someone who needs to move.
And before you hand this lead off, you
absolutely need to know who actually makes the
call. Ask them. Is there anyone else
involved in making this decision?
A spouse, a sibling, an attorney?
And if we were to present an offer, who
would need to sign off on it?
And what would that conversation look like
on their end?
You need these answers because nothing kills
a deal faster than spending weeks working
with someone who can't actually say yes.
If there's a spouse who needs to be on board,
you need to know that now, not after the
acquisition team has spent hours putting an
offer together.
So that's discovery. You've gone past the
basics and found what's really driving this
seller. The real motivation, the money
pressure, the urgency, and who actually signs.
But knowing the story isn't enough.
Next, we'll talk about one of the most critical
moments in the entire pipeline, handing
this lead to the acquisition team without
dropping any of it.
Because bad handoffs kill deals that should
have closed.
I'll see you there.